---
title: 1
layout: page
---
# THE WAY TO WEALTH.


COURTEOUS READER,

I HAVE heard that nothing gives an author so great pleasure, as to
find his works respectfully quoted by others. Judge, then, how much I
must have been gratified by an incident I am going to relate to you. I
stopped my horse, lately, where a great number of people were collected
at an auction of merchants' goods. The hour of the sale not being
come, they were conversing on the badness of the times; and one of the
company called to a plain, clean, old man, with white locks, 'Pray,
Father Abraham, what think you of the times? Will not those heavy taxes
quite ruin the country! How shall we be ever able to pay them? What
would you advise us to?'----Father Abraham stood up, and replied, 'If
you would have my advice, I will give it you in short; "for a word to
the wise is enough," as Poor Richard says.' They joined in desiring him
to speak his mind, and, gathering round him, he proceeded as follows:

'Friends,' says he, 'the taxes are indeed very heavy; and, if those
laid on by the government were the only ones we had to pay, we might
more easily discharge them; but we have many others, and much more
grievous to some of us. We are taxed twice as much by our idleness,
three times as much by our pride, and four times as much by our folly;
and from these taxes the commissioners cannot ease or deliver us by
allowing an abatement. However, let us hearken to good advice, and
something may be done for us; "God helps them that help themselves," as
Poor Richard says.

## I.

'It would be thought a hard government that should tax its people
one-tenth part of their time to be employed in its service: but
idleness taxes many of us much more; sloth, by bringing on diseases,
