---
title: 2
layout: page
---
absolutely shortens life.

"Sloth, like rust, consumes faster than labour wears, while the used
key is always bright," as Poor Richard says.--"But, dost thou love
life? then do not squander time, for that is the stuff life is made
of," as Poor Richard says.--How much more than is necessary do we spend
in sleep! forgetting that, "the sleeping fox catches no poultry, and
that there will be sleeping enough in the grave," as Poor Richard says.

"If time be of all things the most precious, wasting time must be" as
Poor Richard says, "the greatest prodigality;" since, as he elsewhere
tells us, "Lost time is never found again; and what we call time
enough, always proves little enough." Let us then up and be doing,
and doing to the purpose: so by diligence shall we do more with less
perplexity. "Sloth makes all things difficult, but industry all easy;
and he that riseth late, must trot all day, and shall scarce overtake
his business at night; while laziness travels so slowly, that poverty
soon overtakes him. Drive thy business, let not that drive thee; and
early to bed, and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and
wise," as Poor Richard says.

'So what signifies wishing and hoping for better times? We may make
these times better, if we bestir ourselves. "Industry need not wish,
and he that lives upon hope will die fasting. There are no gains
without pains; then help hands, for I have no lands;" or if I have,
they are smartly taxed. "He that hath a trade, hath an estate; and he
that hath a calling, hath an office of profit and honour," as Poor
Richard says; but then the trade must be worked at, and the calling
well followed, or neither the estate nor the office will enable us to
pay our taxes.--If we are industrious, we shall never starve; for "at
the working man's house hunger looks in, but dares not enter." Nor will
the bailiff or the constable enter, for "industry pays debts, while
despair increaseth them." What, though you have found no treasure,
nor has any rich relation left you a legacy. "Diligence is the mother
