---
title: 3
layout: page
---
of good luck, and God gives all things to industry. Then plow deep,
while sluggards sleep, and you shall have corn to sell and to keep."
Work while it is called to-day, for you know not how much you may be
hindered to-morrow. "One to-day is worth two to-morrows," as Poor
Richard says, and farther, "Never leave that till to-morrow, which you
can do to-day."--If you were a servant, would you not be ashamed that
a good master should catch you idle? Are you then your own master? be
ashamed to catch yourself idle, when there is so much to be done for
yourself, your family, your country, and your king. Handle your tools
without mittens: remember, that "The cat in gloves catches no mice," as
Poor Richard says. It is true, there is much to be done, and, perhaps,
you are weak-handed: but stick to it steadily, and you will see great
effects; for "Constant dropping wears away stones; and by diligence and
patience the mouse ate in two the cable; and little strokes fell great
oaks."

'Methinks I hear some of you say, "Must a man afford himself no
leisure?" I will tell thee, my friend, what Poor Richard says, "Employ
thy time well, if thou meanest to gain leisure; and, since thou art not
sure of a minute, throw not away an hour." Leisure is time for doing
something useful; this leisure the diligent man will obtain, but the
lazy man never; for "A life of leisure and a life of laziness are two
things. Many, without labour, would live by their wits only, but they
break for want of stock;" whereas industry gives comfort, and plenty,
and respect. "Fly pleasures and they will follow you. The diligent
spinner has a large shift; and now I have a sheep and a cow, every body
bids me good-morrow."

## II.

'But with our industry we must likewise be steady, settled, and
careful, and oversee our own affairs with our own eyes, and not trust
too much to others: for, as Poor Richard says,

