---
title: 7
layout: page
---
easier to suppress the first desire, than to satisfy all that follow
it." And it is as truly folly for the poor to ape the rich, as for the
frog to swell, in order to equal the ox.

> "Vessels large may venture more,
^
> But little boats should keep near shore."

It is, however, a folly soon punished: for, as Poor Richard says,
"Pride that dines on vanity, sups on contempt;--Pride breakfasted with
Plenty, dined with Poverty and supped with Infamy." And, after all,
of what use is this pride of appearance, for which so much is risked,
so much is suffered? It cannot promote health, nor ease pain; it
makes no increase of merit in the person, it creates envy, it hastens
misfortune.

'But what madness it must be to run in debt for these superfluities? We
are offered, by the terms of this sale, six months credit; and that,
perhaps, has induced some of us to attend it, because we cannot spare
the ready money, and hope now to be fine without it. But, ah! think
what you do when you run in debt; you give to another power over your
liberty, If you cannot pay at the time, you will be ashamed to see
your creditor; you will be in fear when you speak to him; you will
make poor pitiful sneaking excuses, and, by degrees, come to lose your
veracity, and sink into base, downright lying; for, "The second vice
is lying, the first is running in debt," as Poor Richard says; and
again, to the same purpose, "Lying rides upon Debt's back:" whereas a
free-born Englishman ought not to be ashamed nor afraid to see or speak
to any man living. But poverty often deprives a man of all spirit and
virtue. "It is hard for an empty bag to stand upright."--What would you
think of that prince, or of that government, who should issue an edict
forbidding you to dress like a gentleman or gentlewoman, on pain of
imprisonment or servitude? Would you not say that you were free, have a
right to dress as you please, and that such an edict would be a breach
